- We are developers and as developers, we like
to test things first in a local environment.
In this video, I'm going to show you how
to use AWS toolkit to run and deploy Lambda
to local machine and to the cloud.
Make sure you have App class, open.
Notice a Lambda icon, left of the class name.
Here, we have the option to Run or Debug our Lambda.
Let's choose Run.
Runtime is already set as Handler.
We need to set class and the method name,
but since App class implements request handler interface,
it is enough to have just class name.
Timeout is the amount of time that Lambda allows a function
to run before stopping it.
We will set it to 10 seconds.
Since Java is memory hungry,
we will give it around one gigabyte of RAM.
You also need to give it some input.
Since this is accepting JSON object,
we will just add empty brackets and click Run.
So what it is doing now,
it is running the Lambda function locally.
The way this is done is it downloads a local image,
runs the container, mimics the Lambda runtime for us,
And then it says,
"Hey go run that Lambda function in that container."
And here we see the output, which is hello world,
with the IP address of my local machine.
Next let's do the deployments to the cloud.
There are two ways we can do that.
First one is from AWS Explorer.
We need to navigate to AWS Explorer,
choose Lambda, right-click and choose,
Create new Lambda function.
Let's give it a name: Hello world from IntelliJ.
So we can differentiate it from deployment,
we will do through the web console.
We will set runtime, memory and timeout the same as we did
for our local setup.
Our Lambda needs permission to access AWS services
and resources.
So here we either need to choose existing
or create a new role.
But how do we know which permissions to add?
Well, don't worry,
as this Wizard will create an IAM role
with minimal permissions for executions,
which are permissions to send logs to Amazon CloudWatch
and upload trace data to AWS X-Ray.
We can enable X-Ray
to analyze performance issues when running.
Next thing, we need to provide is S3 buckets.
Why is that?
This is the S3 bucket,
SAM is going to Deploy the deployment package to,
after it builds your function.
And it should be in the same region
as your Lambda function.
As an option, we can set SAM to build your function
in a Docker container.
This is useful if the function depends on packages
that have natively compiled dependencies or programs.
Now click, Create Function.
It will Run everything for us,
and the function will be there in the cloud.
In the background, SAM CLI packages our zip,
uploads it to S3 bucket.
Then it says using that S3 bucket,
"I'm going to run this function, using this IAM role."
The function is created.
Now we can right-click, Run,
again provide some inputs and Run.
And as you can see from the logs,
we were able to invoke this function remotely.
Another way, we could Run and Deploy is
by using SAM template or infrastructure as a code
from AWS cloud formation.
Well, our hello world application already came
with the SAM template.YAML file.
So all infrastructure components we defined
in Wizard are already here
from the Lambda specific configuration to the IAM role.
And on the top of that,
we also have the API gateway configuration
that exposes our service with a REST API.
Let's run deployment from here.
First thing we need to do is define a cloud formation stack.
A stack is a collection of AWS resources
that you can manage as a single unit.
In our case, that would be function, IAM role
and an API gateway.
This time, the SAM CLI is building inside the container.
Click on Deploy.
After some time, you should see events
regarding research creation, list of all resources
and the output.
From the output, we can copy API gateway.
Since it doesn't require any authentication,
we can invoke it straight from the browser.
And now our Lambda is also accessible as a REST service.